February 19th, 1942,
Franklin D. Roosevelt
signed and issued Executive Order 9066,
which led to the incarceration
of at least 120,000 people
of Japanese descent,
two thirds of them American citizens.
These people were stripped
of their livelihood without due process
in violation of their Fifth Amendment
rights.
In 1943, the incarcerated were given
a loyalty questionnaire
with questions 27
and 28 being most controversial.
Question 27 asked
whether they would be willing
to serve in combat for the United States.
Question 28 asked whether they
would forswear allegiance to the Japanese emperor.
A loaded question asking about an emperor
that ruled over land
that many of them
have never stepped foot in.
Those who answer to no and no to
those questions were called “No No”s.
They were considered enemies of the state
and taken to maximum security prisons.
You're about to meet Ichiro,
a fictional Japanese-American
incarcerated in the
Manzanar concentration camp.